---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/speech-prep/2026-04-06-2026-04-10-speech-prep-immigration/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"updated":"2026-04-18T20:23:55.731-05:00","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


## Speech Prep

Since the 1980s, the U.S. witnessed a surge in immigration this includes both legally, and illegally. In todays generation we have politicians debating about a prominent solution on what to do in regards to the large illegal immigration within the U.S., according to DHS there are over 11-15 million "undocumented" migrants. What most politicians won't tell you is that most of these "undocumented" immigrants were once legal, they came over in the U.S. legally once but overstayed their legal stay, I'm pointing this out because most of the argument surrounding illegal immigration is that they actually cross over the border "illegally". People often find illegal migration to be a societal issue, both economically, and socially, the claims are often that undocumented immigrants are a net negative to the tax payers, in reality in a federal level undocumented immigrants are fiscally a net positive to government revenue. The solution to illegal immigration isn't mass deportation, nor promoting mass exodus, but instead to introduce legal pathways to legalization, and citizenship. If undocumented immigrants already contribute to this country both socially, and economically, just imagine how much these contributions would surge if many were granted legalization, and citizenship

# Actual Speech

+ Archived

Good Afternoon ladies & gentlemen, today I will be giving a speech on immigration I will be providing its concerns, and the way to fix them. Since the 1970s-1980s the United States of America witnessed a massive influx of immigration both unauthorized, and authorized while Congress did try to address these large influxes such as passing legislation/Acts like the Refugee Act of 1980 and the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, these measures were often reactive and struggled to keep peace with the rapidly changing needs of our humanitarian and labor sectors. Since then we were left to believe that immigration was harmful to society deeming it as a net negative to our economy, culture, and social life. Before we address these concerns we must understand why these ideas were promoted in the first place. So the culture concern, we must understand that the United States never had an ethnic homogeneous culture nor did it favor one, now the economical aspects; immigrants have generally brought positive outcomes to our economy in many ways such as our GDP (generally immigrants increase our GDP), reducing the deficit spending gradually, and helping out with our job sectors (markets, and unemployment). Socially immigrants are a positive contribution; they bring culture to our society, different types of food(s), and languages. Also, it is well known that immigrants integrate into society so the claims that they won't be integrating into society is heavily misleading. We can address the undocumented issue. There's a fix that will be good in the long-term. We can have Congress propose a good piece of legislation that would address our asylum system at our ports of entry, expand our refugee program, allow for those who’re already here to be given accessibility to a legalization process domestically, give those who overstayed their legal status a pathway to citizenship, expand DACA for minors to allow them to stay legal within the United States despite being brought here unauthorized at a young age. We know how to address these immigration issues, we need to advocate for these changes, and force our congress to do something about it.

## The facts and Keywords

- According to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy: Undocumented immigrants contributed to $96.7 billion dollars since 2022.
- According to the Congressional Budget Office, projects that immigration will add $8.9 trillion dollars to US GDP over the next 2024-2034 period.
- According to Migration Policy states that the inflow of immigrants shows that they’re integrating well.
---
1. Congress
2. Legislation/Bill
3. 1970s-1980s
4. Dignity Act
5. GDP
6. Unemployment
7. Surge
8. Demand
9. Refugee Act of 1980
10. 1986 Immigration Reform & Control Act
11. Reinstate Border Bill of 2023-2024