---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/research/library/archived-notes/2026-04-05-societal-issues-wealth-gap/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"updated":"2026-04-06T22:08:43.035-05:00","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

6
# Speech Prep

+ There are strict rules to follow for this speech, won't be using a script but rather have bulleted facts included that may or may not be included during my speech
## Topic: Societal Issues: The Wealth Gap

+ Good afternoon ladies, and gentlemen, I want to address a real societal issue that have existed for over the years and still remains, and that issue is the wealth gap within the United States. In the United States the wealth gap is often ignored by those who are part of the minority who holds majority of the wealth, and many of them tend to influence our politicians to keep it this way. I will be introducing an economical, and social model that will address this societal issue that we're facing today. I am introducing Social Democracy, now what is Social Democracy? According to the Oxford Languages dictionary, Social Democracy is a system of liberal democracy that incorporates a commitment to social reform and social justice. It basically uses Social Liberalist ideals to approach social inequalities, and economical inequality. With Social Democracy we will be able to decrease the wealth gap and allow for redistribution to occur, one example could be to propose progressive taxation, allow for the government's revenue to go towards public safety nets, we could allow the government to regulate the market to reduce inequality. We already have countries practicing social democracy like the Nordic countries like Sweden, Denmark, and Norway.
# The Facts

+ According to VisualCapitalist: https://www.visualcapitalist.com/cp/income-inequality-by-country-after-tax
	+ Finland, Belgium, and France:
		+ Reduce inequality by 40-50% via taxes + welfare
	+ Some countries (including the US):
		+ Reduce inequality by only 20-25%
	+ The take away is that stronger welfare states tend to have bigger reductions
---
+ https://www.oecd.org/en/publications/government-at-a-glance-2025_0efd0bcd-en/full-report/poverty-and-inequality_5f7b56a0.html?
	+ Average inequality (Gini coefficient) across OECD countries:
	+ Before taxes & transfers: 0.46 (pure market income)
	+ After taxes & transfers: 0.32 (welfare benefits, when the government intervenes in the market)
+ That's a 30% reduction in inequality just from redistribution
---
+ According to OECD:
	+ Top 10% share of wealth:
		+ Sweden: 35%
		+ U.S.: 70%
	+ High taxes + redistribution in social democracies shrink the wealth concentration at the top